So if I'm happy with a photo let's go ahead and go to review.
We're going to review everything make sure everything is how we like it.
Looking at our skills
expertise level Web site so save it.
And we're gonna see jobs we're gonna click on my fee.
This is when we can start to apply to jobs is a big part of us work is finding and submitting job requests.
So now that we're here in this fine work area we're going to want to says our profiles only sixty five
percent complete.
Let's get a little bit more further completion.
It only helps when it comes to being searchable.
Let's go and complete our profile.
So we want to set our title so this is when we need to be very specific.
So a lot of people do what's called keyword stuffing which they add a bunch of kind of random qualities
they have.
So they do logo design graphic design yada yada yada.
But it's not a formal title I don't think it looks professional if you just list all the all of your
abilities and services in your title because that's already listed already.
So you want to have a formal title if you want to Google this and kind of help see what's the best title
to use for your industry.
And this case senior graphic designer logo design and branding specialist.
So this is being very specific which is good because when people search for you they're going to see
that you do logo design and branding if you want to do graphic design as a whole.
You can say senior graphic designer art director and graphic designer and make sure you have formal
real titles.
If someone says what what do you do.
Who are you.
That's more like a title it's not going to be listing everything you do graphic design logo design business
car design that's not really what this is for.
This is to look professional and to have a formal title.
So if you're an art director say you're an art director are you a senior art director you know make
sure you kind of put that in there.
If you're an illustrator and artist say I'm a watercolor illustrator and artist you know something along
the lines of what you do in a formal title so and a professional overview.
So we are already way ahead of the game on this because we already written our bio for this in our previous
lessons of course.
So we're going to take our bio we can actually do a first person bio we take our first person bio and
go ahead and load it in here.
This is when we can describe ourselves and a little bit more less of a personal way and a little bit
more of a professional way.
So the first paragraph is going to be fine.
Hi my name is Lillian HERNANDEZ I love to create brands that resonate and connect with their target
audiences.
So in the first line I'm already saying my name and the second and the second part of that first line
I'm saying what I do.
And I was always dabbling in creative things from sketching portraits in high school to diving headfirst
into photoshop before photoshop is even a thing.
And this is kind of one of those things that looks really good in a portfolio website or looks really
good on a PDA portfolio or something online like this in terms of our freelancer Web site.
We need to get right to the point a little bit quicker.
So this might be a little bit of a personal fun thing that we might need to go ahead and remove and
get a little bit more to what we do and focus on what we accomplish a little bit less about us personally.
This is not where we share what our favorite colors are what our favorite food is.
This is where it's a little less about personality and a little bit more.
This is what I can do for you.
And this is what I've done in the past.
So as much as you can say what you've done in the past like I've won an award I've accomplished this
I've accomplished that the more that you could say that you've accomplished or the courses you've taken
the better it sounds.
So this is just like applying for a job interview this is exactly what you'd put on a resume.
So right here during my time at Johnson Institute of Design in New York City so I'm talking about something
I've done I managed to snag several Top Design Award awards including one for best branding project
and Top Team Award for our final product design competition.
So I'm already saying what I've done.
I've already talked about my education already in the first two paragraphs or sentences from Adobe Photoshop
Illustrator and design and now even new programs like Adobe dimensions and next D Lillian is already
talking about the software that she's experiencing but also newer software she's trying to learn so
I'm constantly working at developing new skills in the latest software and this is another good one
to help clients achieve a modern sophisticated look and both digital and print realms.
So I'm seeing a lot with short sentences and packing a lot in there and making sure I talk about what
I do whatever accomplish and the software experience I have as well.
So in the first two paragraphs you already know a lot about Lillian as a previous career in software
engineering I led a team of 20 other software engineers and developing a new tool that speeds up workflow
in the automobile manufacturing space.
So already talking about my prior experience I feel my experience leading large teams is invaluable
to managing larger brand and design projects so pretty much saying I can do well no matter what size
your business is I can be able to handle teams work with teams I'm a team player so that kind of says
that as well.
So what we're going to do is before we complete this we're going to go ahead and save this but we're
going to go back and we're going to add maybe a little bit more to this.
So we're going to study what do the most successful freelancers on up work those who have a lot of prior
experience and have a lot of money earned on the platform.
What do their profiles look like.
Because the profiles and your headshot and your title are everything.
That's all they see when they search for you are those three things.
So to make sure those are excellent beyond comparison is as a good idea.
So let's study I'm to go find the most successful freelancers on up work and study what they've done
he could do the same thing on your own.
I'll be right back.
So I'm on the upward main page and I'm going to look in my own field which would be designs they can
look in whatever field that you can offer freelance services and let's do design.
Let's find some top earners so they're automatically going to display those that have a lot of social
proof.
A lot of reviews a lot of prior client experience.
They're only highlighting the best here and this little rotating carousel in the front.
So we're going to look at those who kind of charge a little bit of a higher rate but also have a lot
of jobs and prove that they they were able to get that higher rate approved.
So let's do this.
Ninety four dollars for a motion graphic designer.
Let's take a look at his.
So this is motion graphics is could be a little bit different than what she does but still in the same
category they've earned over one hundred thousand dollars on the platform that's very rare.
So that's that's only you know maybe the top two or three percent can make that kind of money but it's
definitely possible.
So that they've done 40 jobs so to make one hundred thousand dollars and just 40 jobs is not bad.
The mouth they're getting per project is really good and they have a lot of work hours in.
So let's take a look at what they do for their profile.
You can look the length is pretty much the same as ours.
So I'm a top rated motion graphic designer.
So they're saying they're top rated with over 12 years of experience.
So right in the first line I know already a lot about their history.
I specialize in logo intro videos and explainer videos.
So that's exactly what he does it's his specialty.
He's bringing that right up to the front of the table.
I enjoy it so much.
That's all I do all day and all night.
So that's a little bit of a personal fun thing that he's putting in there but it does take up a lot
of room to say that little short line.
I worked with Adobe Photoshop after effects so you notice how he's listing all the software just like
we did for Lillian.
I can complete a project on my own from research style development storyboarding who's listening all
the things that he has done.
Can do internal training videos and pretty much anything motion graphic related is my line of expertise.
So whether you have a rockstar budget or a normal one like everyone else talk to me and you'll be glad
to have me working on your next project.
So we want to have a line at the end that has a call to action.
So it looks like here he's having a call to action which is basically a contact me kind of call to action.
So what we can do is write one for Lillian which says contact me to see how I can make your logo designs
top notch or you know I can't wait to work on your brand or your project no matter what your budget
is some kind of little line that asks the client to contact you somehow without saying please contact
me kind of write it in a way that's a little bit more elegant and a little bit more like this.
I look forward to creating new and exciting brand experiences that engage your customers and spark new
growth for your company.
So I wrote this at the end of Lillian's bio I'm back on her page.
I feel like that ends the profile really well based on studying what I think are successful freelancers
on up work.
Let's take a look at one other person we just don't want to study one person.
We want to kind of study several to kind of get an idea of what they're putting what kind of keywords
are they're doing they're successful for a reason and we need to study that.
So let's study someone who has a lower price per hour but they're top rated so they do their profile
a little bit different.
Welcome to my profile here are all the jobs I like to design solutions for.
So they're doing this huge list which is a little off putting because I don't know much about Steven.
I just kind of know that they do a lot but I think what would make a stronger profile for him is to
put some of these top rated stuff first top rated freelancer member of six enterprise talent.
So that's huge.
All these are really fantastic things.
They even went to the school of visual arts which is an excellent school in New York City.
I would almost even put that first because I think those are so strong and so good that that deserves
to be read first instead of this big long list of what they do because what they do is already going
to be listed down here.
So so their hourly hourly rate so enthusiasm is common.
Endurance is rare.
They have a quote if you have any other questions please contact me.
So I'd kind of prefer a little bit more about them you know what's their history how long have they
been working in the industry.
Do they have prior work experience this kind of stuff that I wanted to find a little bit more about
Steven.
But he's done very well with three hundred and sixty one jobs to almost two thousand hours worked already.
So this is where on the profile you see experience so work history and feedbacks.
So this is we're having some prior work is really good and that's why we lowered our hourly rate just
a little bit so we could start to get some of these.
This is called social proof or prior reviews.
This is critical because a client's going on there and they don't see you have any reviews.
They don't know how good you are.
They have no clue.
They're taking a big risk by hiring you not having any prior reviews.
So lowering that hourly rate is one of the only ways you can really exchange a lower rate an exchange
for them giving a little more trust in you by not having any reviews it's kind of a necessary evil when
working online on these big Web sites.
That's kind of one of the reasons why I like local networking better than some of these online Web sites.
But not everyone is going to be in a big city and get to be able to do that kind of local networking.